**Romina Oliva Lab.**  “Parthenope” University of Naples, Italy (romina.oliva@uniparthenope.it)

 We provided 37 simple scores (“F_” values).  

Thirty one of them correspond to  COCOMAPS/CONSRANK features (Vangone et al., 2011, Bioinformatics 27:2915; Oliva et al., 2013, Proteins 81:1571; Chermak et al., 2015, Bioinformatics 31:1481). They include the total number of residue-residue contacts at the interface, plus the number of contacts between specific  physico-chemical classes of amino acids involved in the contacts: polar, apolar, aliphatic, aromatic and charged (where polar amino acids, P, are:  Asn, Gln, Ser, Thr; apolar, A, amino acids are: Cys, Gly, Met, Pro; aliphatic, Al, amino acids are: Ala, Ile, Leu, Val; aromatic, Ar, amino acids are: Phe, Trp, Tyr; and charged, C, amino acids are: Asp, Arg, Glu, His, Lys.). Additionally, the corresponding fractions over the total number of contacts per complex were provided. The used threshold for defining a contact was 5 Å between any pair of heavy atoms on the two interacting proteins.
Please notice that the CONSRANK score, that we generally use when scoring CAPRI models, could not be calculated here, as it requires multiple 3D models for the same target complex.

Six additional simple scores correspond to the total buried surface area (BSA) upon complex formation plus its polar and apolar components, calculated both by NACCESS (Hubbard & Thornton, 1993, University College London) and by FreeSASA (Mitternacht, 2016, F1000Res 5:189).



In addition, we provided 4 integrated scores (“I_” values)  (with relative predicted class, TRUE/FALSE):

They report the probability for the dimer structure to be a physiological one, given by our classifiers based on either a Neural Network (NN) or a Random Forest (RF) approach. These classifiers either used 148 features (_all) from different sources: CONSRANK, CCharPPI (Moal et al., 2015, Bioinformatics 31:123), CIPS (Nadalin & Carbone, 2018, Bioinformatics 34:459), Prodigy (Xue et al., 2016, Bioinformatics 32:3676), or a subset of 42 features selected (_sel) thereof using a Wrapper method. All classifiers have been trained on a dataset of 73684 docking decoys, we generated by three different software, FTDock (Gabb et al., 1997, J Mol Biol 272:106), ZDock (Chen et al., 2003, Proteins 52:80) and HADDOCK (Dominguez et al., 2003, J Am Chem Soc 125:1731) for 213 targets - corresponding to homo and hetero-assemblies - from the Docking Benchmark Version 5 (BM5, Vreven et al., 2015, J Mol Biol 427:3031). This is a “balanced” dataset obtained by applying a random undersampling selection of the incorrect models to match the number of correct models per target. The number of models per target is therefore variable, as it depends on the number of correct models available for it, being on average 346 (with a standard deviation of 357.94), with a median value of 214.  

Further details on our classifiers and decoys dataset - which we made publicly available- can be found in Barradas-Bautista et al. (2022, Bioinform Adv 2:vbab042).
