Fernández-Recio Lab. ICVV-CSIC. Elixir ES (juan.fernandezrecio@icvv.es)

**pyDock**
pyDock docking score (Cheng et al 2007) is composed of electrostatics, desolvation, and van der Waals energy terms (the latter weighted by 10%). This combination was optimized for the scoring of poses from ab initio docking, and seems also suitable for models generated by template-based docking. Here we have applied this function as well as each individual pyDock energy term to the proposed benchmark of dimer interfaces. We have also computed here an integrated score formed by desolvation and van der Waals, which has shown better predictive values in preliminary tests. 

**CCharPPI** 
The CCharPPI (Moal et al 2015) web server (http://life.bsc.es/pid/ccharppi) integrates a variety of  biophysical functions and potentials for the characterization of protein-protein complex interfaces into a single web application, which is freely available for academic non-commercial use. The server  calculates up to 108 parameters for the input protein-protein interface, including models of  electrostatics, desolvation and hydrogen bonding, as well as interface packing and complementarity  scores, empirical potentials at various resolutions, docking potentials and composite scoring  functions.  From the original 108 descriptors, we have discarded those that failed in a significant number of cases, so we have computed here 88 descriptors.
References 

Cheng TM-K, Blundell TL, Fernández-Recio J (2007) pyDock: electrostatics and desolvation for effective scoring  of rigid-body protein-protein docking. Proteins 68, 503–515.

Moal IH, Jiménez-García B, Fernández-Recio J (2015) CCharPPI web server: computational characterization of  protein-protein interactions from structure. Bioinformatics 31, 123-125.
